- [Instructor] One very compelling reason to use
the Spring Integration framework
for your Java-based messaging needs is the rich library
of implementations allowing you to quickly connect
your Java application to a very wide variety
of external systems.
There are approximately 28 different out of the box
endpoints available, letting you cross the Java
virtual machine runtime boundaries using best
messaging practices and, best of all,
code that you don't have to write.
As we have mentioned, these external endpoints
are supported heavily by the adapter and gateway
enterprise integration patterns.
It is worth noting that in this course,
we use a broad definition of the term endpoint.
However, sometimes when you hear the term endpoint
used in the context of Spring Integration,
it will be more circumscribed to these two
particular types of connector.
Under Spring Integration implementation,
adapters notably support one-direction message flow.
So in and out channel adaptation requires two
adapter configurations, one for each end of the channel.
Adapters connect a single consumer or producer to a channel.
The general rule is that inbound adapters add configuration
to the send end of a channel and outbound adapters
add configuration to the receiving end of a channel.
Gateways on the other hand are bi-directional.
Their special purpose is to altogether hide
messaging framework implementation
from the Java application business logic.
In general, inbound gateways configure the server side
of an interaction while outbound gateways
configure the client side.
This chart gives a sample of the transport protocols
that Spring Integration supports.
From file system interaction to MongoDB and WebSockets,
most if not all common connectivity needs
are not only supported but completely implemented
in Spring Integration.
In our upcoming lessons, we are going to study
an HTTP connection, a JDBC connection,
and a Twitter external connection.
So let's get to some code and explore adapter
and gateway endpoints by building three
of these external connections together.